# Evaluation of Foundational MLIPs for Migration Barrier Prediction
This repository reports nudged elastic band (NEB) results obtained with foundational machine-learned interatomic potentials (MLIPs) namely, MACE-MP-0, SevenNet, Orb-v3, CHGNet, and M3GNet. Our primary goals are to assess how well these MLIPs predict ionic migration barriers in solids when coupled with the NEB framework and to determine whether they yield superior initial guesses for the minimum-energy path. We also introduce a new metric for comparing MLIP-predicted 'local' geometries. Our work is detailed in a manuscript titled, "Evaluation of Foundational Machine Learned Interatomic Potentials for Migration Barrier Predictions", which is currently under review. A pre-print of the manuscript can be found on [arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.03642).

The repository comprises three folders: "Dataset-1", "Dataset-2", and "codes". The first layer of folders in "Dataset-1" are named after the structure class (e.g. Weberites) they belong to and the subsequent directory is named after the composition of the system. "Dataset-2" folder contains sub-directories named only after the composition of the system. Both the folders "Dataset-1" and "Dataset-2" contain NEB results for each MLIP (organized by model name) inside the folder named after the composition.

The "codes" folder provides (i) a python implementation of the local geometry metric defined in Equation 1 of our manuscript and (ii) model-specific notebooks for running NEBs with each universal potential, where each notebook is named after its corresponding potential.

In case you use any of the data or the codes here, we would appreciate a citation to our manuscript on [arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.03642).
